The current distribution of GNU/Linux, AKA "distro" that you are using, is called "Linux Mint."
This distribution is a spin-off, or "fork" of ubuntu. Ubuntu us based on Debian, and was meant to be
an easy way of accessing GNU/Linux to the masses. However, some developers disagreed with some decisions
the Ubuntu team made, and they made their own version called Linux Mint. 
However, all tutorials for Ubuntu will probably work for Linux Mint, since they are the same under the hood. 
If you ever find a tutorial to do something on Debian or Ubuntu, chances are it will work on Linux Mint as well. 

However, if you find tutorials for OpenSUSE, Arch, or Fedora, those tutorials might NOT work, as those are different
distros under the hood. 

What makes distros common with one another? Mainly, their package manager. The package manager is the installer
for the operating system. It manages everything to do with the programs you install. There are a few package
managers used by different distros, but Linux Mint uses the "apt" package manager. 

Using the terminal is almost not needed anymore, but it is still the most efficient way of installing programs. 
The terminal is much easier to use than you might expect, it is about as difficult as preforming minecraft commands. 

Apt commands work like this:

apt [install/search/remove/] [program name] [other arguments (normally starting with a "-" or "--"]

For example, installing firefox is as simple as typing the command: 

sudo apt install firefox

What does that "sudo" mean at the beginning? It means "execute as root." It's basically the "run as administrator" 
command in Windows. If a command doesn't work, and the error reads "permission denied" run the command again with
sudo in front of it. Sudo should be used before every apt command. 

Another simple way to install programs is using the "snap" installer. While this is another package manager, it is mostly
used just for big compant programs. For example, to install Spotify on the system, I simply typed: 

sudo snap install spotify 

and it was installed within seconds. No need to find the spotify website and download the executable, just install and done. 
Other items you might have to use snap instead of apt include: Discord, and chromium (linux's version of google chrome)

Snaps are often slower than apt when it comes to launching programs, etc. So I always make sure to use apt
before resorting to using the snap store. Spotify and discord are pretty much the only snap programs you need to install. 

If you are unsure, you can always search "how to install X linux" or "how to install X ubuntu." I think you will
find more tutorials searching for Ubuntu rather than Linux Mint. 

to update your system, or search for if there are updates available, simply copy and paste the following:

sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade

the "&&" designates to do both commands, but one at a time. This command searches for updates in apt, and then upgrades any
it finds that can be upgraded. Sometimes "sudo apt full-upgrade" is used for upgrading the entire operating system. 
It should be done about once a year-ish, but it is never necessary. 

Of course, none of this is necessary, all can be done with Linux Mint's updater and package manager. 

One command you might definitely, probably will need (at least I needed it a lot) is the command:

pulseaudio -k

If audio ever becomes loud, staticy, and "delayed," as in you pause the sound/video but it still plays for a little. 
This means that the audio driver has shit the bed, and needs to be restarted. 
Pulseaudio is the audio driver, and the "-k" argument kills the current session. 
The only problem is that webpages need to be refreshed, and discord needs to be shut down and restarted. 
Other than that it is totally fine to use whenever sound gets fucky. 

As for menus, and linux itself, that can all be handled through hotkeys and the menu at the bottom. 
At the bottom, there is a little apple logo, this is basically the start menu from windows. Everything is categorized
accordingly, and it should be pretty self-explanitory. I have pinned several music apps to the activity bar already. 

Hotkeys

Some hotkeys are already pretty familiar with: 

Alt+F4 = terminate program

There are some other hotkeys that launch particular programs, the one probably most often used is:

Ctrl+Alt+T = Launch Terminal

This will open the terminal up, and you should be greeted with the apple logo and your computer's specs to see if it is
done correctly. Afterwards you'll be able to type whatever command you'd like. You can even launch programs here. If 
a program isn't functioning properly, or isn't launching at all, you can launch it in a terminal and get a full read-out
of what may or may not be working. 

CONNECTING TO WIFI

I need to make sure this file is on your desktop for this reason. On the bottom of your screen, there is a little grey system tray in the corner. It is on the left, I couldn't figure out how to put it to the right. 
you should see the clock, calendar, bluetooth, etc. As well as a little grey square on the very end of it. Clicking on that gray square opens the network manager to connect to select the wifi device from there. 
Why is it a little gray square? Because the icon is gray, and so is the system tray, and I don't want to bother changing the icon to white so you can see it the one time you'll be using it. And, most importantly, it works. 

